# Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree

## Program Description
Machine learning represents a key evolution in the fields of computer science, data analysis, software engineering, and artificial intelligence.

This program will teach you how to become a machine learning engineer, and apply predictive models to massive data sets in fields like finance, healthcare, education, and more.

## Projects
1. [Titanic Survival Exploration](./titanic_survival_exploration)
In this project, you will create decision functions that attempt to predict survival outcomes from the 1912 Titanic disaster based on each passenger’s features, such as sex and age. You will start with a simple algorithm and increase its complexity until you are able to accurately predict the outcomes for at least 80% of the passengers in the provided data. This project will introduce you to some of the concepts of machine learning as you start the Nanodegree program.

2. [Predicting Boston Housing Prices](./boston_housing)
The Boston housing market is highly competitive, and you want to be the best real estate agent in the area. To compete with your peers, you decide to leverage a few basic machine learning concepts to assist you and a client with finding the best selling price for their home. Luckily, you’ve come across the Boston Housing dataset which contains aggregated data on various features for houses in Greater Boston communities, including the median value of homes for each of those areas. Your task is to build an optimal model based on a statistical analysis with the tools available. This model will then be used to estimate the best selling price for your clients' homes.

3. [Finding Donors for CharityML](./finding_donors)  
CharityML is a fictitious charity organization located in the heart of Silicon Valley that was established to provide financial support for people eager to learn machine learning. After nearly 32,000 letters sent to people in the community, CharityML determined that every donation they received came from someone that was making more than $50,000 annually. To expand their potential donor base, CharityML has decided to send letters to residents of California, but to only those most likely to donate to the charity. With nearly 15 million working Californians, CharityML has brought you on board to help build an algorithm to best identify potential donors and reduce overhead cost of sending mail. Your goal will be evaluate and optimize several different supervised learners to determine which algorithm will provide the highest donation yield while also reducing the total number of letters being sent.

4. Creating Customer Segments  
A wholesale distributor recently tested a change to their delivery method for some customers, by moving from a morning delivery service five days a week to a cheaper evening delivery service three days a week.Initial testing did not discover any significant unsatisfactory results, so they implemented the cheaper option for all customers. Almost immediately, the distributor began getting complaints about the delivery service change and customers were canceling deliveries — losing the distributor more money than what was being saved. You’ve been hired by the wholesale distributor to find what types of customers they have to help them make better, more informed business decisions in the future. Your task is to use unsupervised learning techniques to see if any similarities exist between customers, and how to best segment customers into distinct categories.

5. Train a Smartcab to Drive  
In the not-so-distant future, taxicab companies across the United States no longer employ human drivers to operate their fleet of vehicles. Instead, the taxicabs are operated by self-driving agents — known as **smartcabs** — to transport people from one location to another within the cities those companies operate. In major metropolitan areas, such as Chicago, New York City, and San Francisco, an increasing number of people have come to rely on **smartcabs** to get to where they need to go as safely and efficiently as possible. Although **smartcabs** have become the transport of choice, concerns have arose that a self-driving agent might not be as safe or efficient as human drivers, particularly when considering city traffic lights and other vehicles. To alleviate these concerns, your task as an employee for a national taxicab company is to use reinforcement learning techniques to construct a demonstration of a **smartcabs** operating in real-time to prove that both safety and efficiency can be achieved.

6. Image Classification  
In this project, you'll classify images from the [CIFAR-10](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kriz/cifar.html) dataset. The dataset consists of airplanes, dogs, cats, and other objects. The dataset will need to be preprocessed, then train a convolutional neural network on all the samples. You'll normalize the images, one-hot encode the labels, build a convolutional layer, max pool layer, and fully connected layer. At then end, you'll see their predictions on the sample images.

7. Capstone Project  
In this capstone project, you will leverage what you’ve learned throughout the Nanodegree program to solve a problem of your choice by applying machine learning algorithms and techniques. You will first define the problem you want to solve and investigate potential solutions and performance metrics. Next, you will analyze the problem through visualizations and data exploration to have a better understanding of what algorithms and features are appropriate for solving it.  

 You will then implement your algorithms and metrics of choice, documenting the preprocessing, refinement, and postprocessing steps along the way. Afterwards, you will collect results about the performance of the models used, visualize significant quantities, and validate/justify these values. Finally, you will construct conclusions about your results, and discuss whether your implementation adequately solves the problem.  
